1. Protection against DDoS Attacks: Combined Detection and Prevention Systems. 

Current Problem: Systems can detect DDoS attacks, but cannot offer a real-time or automated mitigation strategy once the attack has been detected. Mitigation systems frequently damage a system even once attack has been identified.  

Hybrid AI-SDN-Blockchain Model.  

Detection: An attack can be detected using AI and machine learning models in which convolutional neural networks, long short-term memory, and random forests are applied. DDoS attacks are either real-time or time-proximate, which means that the attack can be intercepted with the help of edge nodes (routers, IoT gateways, etc.) by means of pattern analysis and anomaly analysis.  
s and Directly collating self-logs of multiple servers in a single session.  

Immediate Mitigation:  

Once the AI has detected and categorized such a malicious traffic DDoS attack, the AI module will activate an automated controlled response to the malicious stream of traffic before it has been detected.  

SDN (Software Defined Networking) controllers (e.g., OpenDaylight, ONOS) will generate and deploy flow rules within seconds preventing the malicious traffic stream and analyze the routing flows in order to reduce the impact on system resources through re-ranging and flow-attenuating screens that will be added to the vulnerable servers.  

Secure Collaboration and logging: Automated detection and mitigation systems Automated detection and mitigation systems are logged permanently into the blockchain (Ethereum, Hyperledger Fabric) through the use of smart contracts.  

Global blacklists can also be modified and updated by smart contracts and enforced by other controllers/nodes which are enforced by automation retrieval.  

How Does Integration Work?  

Data Flow:  

-IoT/edge node collects traffic data.

-Local ML detects the abnormality.

-SDN controller receives API traffic on ML and applies the rules defined on southbound API (OpenFlow).

-Any action events are logged in blockchain and updated global rules and blacklists are issued in the smart contracts.

The changes are confirmed and implemented by the members (other controllers/nodes).  

Frameworks:  

AI/ML: TensorFlow and PyTorch ML models, which are pre-trained on the edge devices.  

SDN OpenDaylight, ONOS, Ryu (Python).

Blockchain: In the case of blockchain, Ethereum in the category of public smart contracts and Hyperledger Fabric in the category of permissioned and scalable blockchain.

Integration:  

REST APIs to decouple the ML detection component and the SDN controller.  

Smart contracts enforce automations in auditing activities, control of blacklists and whitelists, and coordination of bans on malicious actors.  

Lab Implementation to Thousands of IoT Nodes. 

Challenge 

Implementations on labs are done on 10-50 nodes. Under any conditions, in real life, IoT situations will involve thousands. In this way, the aspect of scalability is somehow overlooked.

Concrete Solution 

Federated learning, permissioned blockchain and distributed SDN.  

The local traffic data is used to train a local machine learning model by each IoT cluster and model weights and contextual changes are only shared. In a way, all the data is not included and the burden of communication is greatly reduced. Global model y algorithms of federated averaging are rather built by means of local model updates.  

The Hyperledger Fabric permissioned blockchain may be used to establish a private and quick blockchain, give credibility to IoT clusters, and authorize regional SDN controllers. The blockchain is able to audit the shared database of reported attacks, and execute shared mitigative logic and updates.  

Every autonomous SDN controller, which is synchronized using any method of one’s choice, can use UP to survey their specified regions of the network. The SDN controllers may be synchronized using blockchain or any controller clustering algorithms such as RAFT, Paxos, or any other consensus.

Integration:

The local responses of each local Internet of Things (IoT) area are put into practice, the weights of models are uploaded to the local federated ML model aggregators, warnings are issued, the data is relocated through the blockchain, and cross-network defenses are available to other areas.



3. SDN Controller Bottlenecks
Problem:

One of the critical failure points (traffic spike) is the possibility of centralized SDN Controller being overloaded.
Concrete Solution: SDN -Load Balancing and Consensus Multi-controller.
Controller Pool:
Installation of many SDN Controllers within various parts of the network.
Synchronization and failover Use clustering algorithms, e.g. RAFT or Paxos.



Load Balancing:
Traffic may be assigned to controllers via hashing, region knowledge or traffic knowledge algorithm. 
Failover is achieved by instantaneous control over to another controller in case of a failure of the controller.

Coordination:The synchronization of rules is achieved by use of internal blockchain or distributed databases.

Integration:

-Synchronized controllers. Communication and mutual validation of rules are assigned to each controller. Synchronization involves doing updates in coordination.

-In Multiple Instances OpenDaylight/ONOS/Ryu.  

-Atomix, RAFT Clustering or distributed Zookeeper.  

5.Smart Contract Vulnerabilities.  

Problems.  

There might be failures in defenses because smart contracts have been designed poorly, or deployed poorly, or both.  

In terms of concrete solution, it is: Role- Based Controls, Automated Security Auditing and Formal Verification.  

Formal Verification.  

Smart contracts may be defended in Solidity formal verification, TLA+, or Coq to construct mathematical proofs.  

To check the smart contract code automatically, it is recommended to run the code undergoing the analysis of automated auditing tools (e.g., Mythril, Slither or Securify).  

Role-Based Authorization.  

Access control lists and permission checks enable the contract holders to delegate and restrict the number of people that can update or execute contracts.  

Use of Upgradable Contracts.  

Use proxy patterns in order to be able to update and patch contracts safely as threats are discovered.  

Integration.  

Tracking/audit of the contract workflow should be introduced before network deployment.  

Frameworks/Tools Solidity (Ethereum), Fabric Chaincode (Hyperledger), Mythril, Slither, OpenZeppelin Defender and Chain Fabric.  

Performance (Blockchain latency) vs Security  

Problem:  

Blockchain technology can also be counterproductive to the rapidity of response to defence in relation to the consensus time and transaction processing.  

In other words, the answer is: Off-chain Storage, Parallel Processing and Permissioned (Private) Blockchains.

Integration: 

 The network rules should be applied to update the wrong ledgers.  On-chain confirmations should be done only under a necessity.   

 Application of the tools and framework.  

 Quorum, IPFS and Hyperledger Fabric.   

 6. Avoiding Attacks of apparent legitimate Traffic.  

 Statement of the problem  

 Hackers usually spoof traffic so as to conceal their identity.  

 Practical solution: collaborative filtering, cross-layer inspection as well as deep behavioural analysis.  

 Deep Behavioural Models:  

 More complex Machine Learning (ML) systems (LSTM, CNN, ensemble methods) are employed to learn from the historical user and system behaviour (not only packet statistics) to identify actions that are out of the ordinary.  

 Checking of the Cross-layer:  

 -Investigate and examine network, transport, and application layer traffic on the OSI and on consistent patterns of session (messages types, login times) and device behaviour (habits).
Collaborative Filtering:

 Through threat intelligence that is supported by blockchains, IoT nodes, edge clusters, and controllers can share the signals of anomaly.

 Updates to Dynamic Rules

 Adapt SDN rules automatically with global intelligence; e.g. block access by so-called bots or control bandwidth based on a pattern that may look like a previous attack.

 Tools and Frameworks:

 Elastic Stack (log/signal analysis), TensorFlow/PyTorch and blockchain-based security orchestration platforms which utilize blockchain APIs and SDN.
